Gregor answered to both sides: "I'm ready, now", making an
effort to remove all the strangeness from his voice by
enunciating very carefully and putting long pauses between
each, individual word.  His father went back to his
breakfast, but his sister whispered: "Gregor, open the door,
I beg of you."  Gregor, however, had no thought of opening
the door, and instead congratulated himself for his cautious
habit, acquired from his travelling, of locking all doors at
night even when he was at home.

The first thing he wanted to do was to get up in peace
without being disturbed, to get dressed, and most of all to
have his breakfast.  Only then would he consider what to do
next, as he was well aware that he would not bring his
thoughts to any sensible conclusions by lying in bed.  He
remembered that he had often felt a slight pain in bed,
perhaps caused by lying awkwardly, but that had always
turned out to be pure imagination and he wondered how his
imaginings would slowly resolve themselves today.  He did
not have the slightest doubt that the change in his voice
was nothing more than the first sign of a serious cold,
which was an occupational hazard for travelling salesmen.

It was a simple matter to throw off the covers; he only had
to blow himself up a little and they fell off by themselves.
But it became difficult after that, especially as he was so
exceptionally broad.  He would have used his arms and his
hands to push himself up; but instead of them he only had
all those little legs continuously moving in different
directions, and which he was moreover unable to control.  If
he wanted to bend one of them, then that was the first one
that would stretch itself out; and if he finally managed to
do what he wanted with that leg, all the others seemed to be
set free and would move about painfully.  "This is
something that can't be done in bed", Gregor said to
himself, "so don't keep trying to do it".
